_hardware.md, before:

# Awesome Hardware Reverse Engineering

A curated list of awesome reverse engineering resources to make you better! 

Managed by Reversing.ID for the reversing community.

## Introduction 

`Hardware Reverse Engineering` focus on circuitry (boards, ICs) and intercomponent relation.

The scope and level of analysis can be vary greatly, some common targets:

- firmware.
- board layout.
- chip circuit design.

Some notable process:

- teardown: product disassembly, component/subsystem identification
- interface: protocol monitoring/analysis/emulation
- firmware: extract/modify code or data
- circuit: silicon modification

## Table of Contents

- Resources
    - [Books](#books)
    - [Courses](#courses)
    - [Channels](#channels)
    - [References](#references)
    - [Communities](#communities)
    - [Protocol List](#protocol-list)
- Hadware Tools
    - [Bus Interface](#bus-interface)
    - [Programmers & Flashers](#programmers--flashers)
    - [Hardware Debuggers](#hardware-debuggers)
    - [Protocol Analyzers](#protocol-analyzers)
    - [Logic Analyzers](#logic-analyzers)
    - [Osciloscopes](#osciloscopes)
    - [Dev & Breakout Boards](#dev--breakout-boards)
    - [Radio Frequency](#radio-frequency)
    - [Magnetic Strip](#magnetic-strip)
- Software Tools
    - [EDA](#eda)
    - [Firmware Extract](#firmware-extract)
    - [Disassemblers & Decompilers](#disassemblers--decompilers)
    - [Software Debuggers](#software-debuggers)
    - [Traffic Analysis](#traffic-analysis)
- Software Packages & Libraries
    - [RTOS](#rtos)

- - - 

## Books

Electronics, VHDL, and circuit design

* [Digital Electronics](https://amzn.com/8125939369)
* [Digital Fundamentals](https://amzn.com/0132737965)
* [Digital Design](https://amzn.com/B00HQ1CYUU)
* [The Art of Electronics](https://amzn.com/0521809266)

Hardware hacking

* [The Hardware Hacker: Advetures in Making and Breaking Hardware](https://amzn.com/159327758X)
* [Hardware Hacking: Have Fun while Voiding your Warranty](https://amzn.com/B001UN2WDY)
* [Hardware Hacking Projects for Geeks](https://amzn.com/0596003145) 
* [Game Console Hacking: Xbox, PlayStation, Nintendo, Game Boy, Atari and Sega](https://amzn.com/B001V7U7AE)

PCB (Printed Circuit Boards)

* [The Art of PCB Reverse Engineering: Unravelling the Beauty of the Original Design](https://amzn.com/1499323441)
* [PCB-RE: Real-World Examples](https://amzn.com/B087V4GJ94)

BIOS, UEFI, Firmware

* [BIOS Disassembly Ninjutsu Uncovered](https://amzn.com/1931769605)
* [Beyond BIOS: Developing with the Unified Extensible Firmware Interface](https://amzn.com/1501514784)

## Courses

Electronic

* [Lessons in Electric Circuits](https://www.ibiblio.org/kuphaldt/electricCircuits/) - Free high quality textbooks and worksheets with emphasys on theory, simulation, and the socratic method.
* [Ultimate Electronics: Practical Circuit Design and Analysis](https://ultimateelectronicsbook.com/) - Free online book with interactive schematics & simulations by CircuitLab (under development).
* [Khan Academy - Electrical Engineering](https://www.khanacademy.org/science/electrical-engineering) - Non-profit learning platform with a full course on electrical engineering and related topics.
* [NEETS (Navy Electricity and Electronics Training Series)](https://www.fcctests.com/neets/Neets.htm) - U.S. Navy Non-Resident Training Course Material.
* [Berkeley EECS](http://inst.eecs.berkeley.edu/classes-eecs.html) - Comprehensive EE & CS course website archives.
* [Dr. Jacob Baker](http://cmosedu.com) - Courses and tutorials, professor at The University of Nevada, Las Vegas.
* [Dr. Abraham](https://www.cerc.utexas.edu/~jaa/teaching.html), [Dr. McDermot](http://users.ece.utexas.edu/~mcdermot/), and [Dr. Valvano](http://users.ece.utexas.edu/~valvano/) - Courses materials, professors at UT Austin

Radio Frequency

* [Software Defined Radio with HackRF](https://greatscottgadgets.com/sdr/)

## Channels

YouTube Channel

* [Micah Scott](https://www.youtube.com/user/micahjd) - video logs of Reverse Engineering and repurposing consumer electronics hardware in creative ways.
* [The Signal Path](https://www.youtube.com/user/TheSignalPathBlog) - collections of teardown, repairs, and reviews of lab equipment and prototyping products.
* [GreatScott](https://www.youtube.com/user/greatscottlab)
* [EEVblog](https://www.youtube.com/user/EEVblog)

## References

Learning Assembly

* [Low-level Code Reference](https://github.com/ReversingID/LowLevelCode-Reference)

Development Boards

* [Arduino](https://www.arduino.cc/) | based on AVR or ARM 
* [NodeMCU](https://www.nodemcu.com) | based on ESP8266
* [Teensy](https://www.pjrc.com/teensy/) | based on ARM
* [MSP430 Launchpad](http://www.ti.com/tool/MSP-EXP430G2ET) | based on TI MSP430
* [STM32 Nucleo](https://www.st.com/en/evaluation-tools/stm32-nucleo-boards.html)

Single-Board Computer (family)

* [Raspberry Pi](https://www.raspberrypi.org/)
* [BeagleBoard](https://beagleboard.org/)
* [Onion Omega](https://onion.io/)
* [Pine64](https://www.pine64.org/)
* [ODROID](https://www.hardkernel.com)

Part Search Engine

* [Octopart](https://octopart.com)
* [Findchips](https://www.findchips.com/)
* [Parts.io](https://parts.io/)
* [AllDataSheet.io](https://www.alldatasheet.com/)

## Protocol List

Inter-circuitry protocol (Internal)

This protocol used for communication between circuit or modules, such as EEPROM, RAM, RTC, sensors, etc.

* SPI: *Serial Peripheral Interface*, synchronous protocol with master-slave design.
* I2C: *Inter-Integrated Circuit*, synchronous protocol with multi-master and multi-slave support.

System communication (External)

This protocol used for communication between modules or external system.

* Wired protocol
    - CAN: *Controller Area Network*, device communication popular in vehicle.
    - USB: *Universal Serial Bus*
    - UART & USART: *Universal Synchronous Asynchronous Receiver-Transmitter*
    - RS232
* Wireless protocol
    - Bluetooth
    - LoRaWAN
    - WiFi
    - ZigBee

Debugging protocol

* JTAG: *Joint-Test Action Group*
* SWD: *Serial-Wire Debug*, ARM specific protocol

## Communities

* [Kitspace](https://kitspace.org)
* [Hackaday.io](https://hackaday.io)
* [Hackster.io](https://www.hackster.io/)
* [Maker.pro](https://maker.pro)
* [Maker.io](https://www.digikey.com/en/maker)

- - - 

## Bus Interface

* [Shikra](https://int3.cc/products/the-shikra) - JTAG, SPI, I2C, UART, GPIO
* [Hydrabus](https://hydrabus.com/) - UART, I2C, USB, smartcard, 2-wire, wiegand, SPI, CAN, SDIO, DAC, 1-wire
* [Xpliot Nano](https://expliot.io/products/expliot-nano)
* [Bus Pirate](http://dangerousprototypes.com/docs/Features_overview) - 1-wire, I2C, SPI, JTAG, UART
* USB to TTL/UART
* [USBtin](https://www.fischl.de/usbtin/) - USB to CAN interface.

OBD adapter

* [ObdDiag](http://www.obddiag.net/) - open source ELM327 OBD adapter, connect to On-Board Diagnostic (OBD) port for connecting to car's self-diagnostic system.
* [M2](https://www.macchina.cc/m2-introduction) - 

## Programmers & Flashers

*read/write device which contain memory*

Universal

* [EE Tools](https://eetools.com/product-category/programmers/)

Microcontroller/Microprocessor Specific

* STM32 programmer - enter DFU (Device Firmware Upgrade) mode for programming and debugging
* AVR programmer

## Hardware Debuggers

SWD (Serial Wire Debugger), ARM specific

* [ST-Link](https://www.st.com/en/development-tools/st-link-v2.html)

JTAG (Joint-Test Action Group)

* [JTAGulator](https://github.com/grandideastudio/jtagulator) - scan and identify JTAG pin
* [JTAGEnum](https://github.com/cyphunk/JTAGenum) - using arduino to identify JTAG pin
* [RIFF Box](http://www.riffbox.org/)
* [Bus Blaster](http://dangerousprototypes.com/docs/Bus_Blaster) - JTAG debugger
* [Segger J-Link](https://www.segger.com/products/debug-probes/j-link/)
* Shikra
* ST-Link

## Protocol Analyzers

*real-time, non-intrusive monitoring/capture/decoding of wired communication*

Multi

* [TotalPhase Beagle](https://www.totalphase.com/products/beagle-i2cspi/) - USB/I2C/SPI

USB 

* Teledyn [LeCroy Voyager](https://teledynelecroy.com/protocolanalyzer/usb) series
* [OpenVizsla](http://openvizsla.org/)
* [Daisho](https://greatscottgadgets.com/daisho/)

CAN

* [CANtact](https://linklayer.github.io/cantact/) - CAN (Controller Area Network) to USB interface
* [TotalPhase Komodo](https://www.totalphase.com/products/komodo-canduo/) - CAN

## Logic Analyzers

*concurrently capturing, visualizing, and decoding large quantities of digital data*

* [Logic Pirate](http://dangerousprototypes.com/docs/Logic_Pirate) - 8 channels
* [Saleae](https://www.saleae.com/)
* USB Logic Analyzer
* [BeagleBone as Logic Analyzer](https://github.com/abhishek-kakkar/BeagleLogic)

## Osciloscopes

*visual display of electrical signals and how they change over time*

Standalone

* HP/Agilent
* Tektronix
* Rohde & Schwarz
* LeCroy
* Rigol

PC_based

* ProcScope
* USBee
* PicoScope

## Dev & Breakout Boards

* [GoodFET](http://goodfet.sourceforge.net/)
* [GreatFET One](https://greatscottgadgets.com/greatfet/one/)

## Radio Frequency

*Analyze, modify, and replay Radio Frequency signal.*

General-purpose

* [HackRF](https://greatscottgadgets.com/hackrf/) - half duplex, 1 MHz - 6 GHz
* [LimeSDR](https://www.crowdsupply.com/lime-micro/limesdr) - full duplex, 
* [RTL-SDR](https://www.rtl-sdr.com/) - RX, 500 kHz - 1766 MHz
* [YARD Stick](https://greatscottgadgets.com/yardstickone/) - half duplex, 300-348 MHz, 391-464 MHz, 782-928 MHz
* [nRF52840 Dongle](https://www.nordicsemi.com/Software-and-tools/Development-Kits/nRF52840-Dongle) - dongle which support Bluetooth 5, Bluetooth mesh, Thread, ZigBee, 802.15.4, ANT, and 2.4 GHz proprietary protocols.

Zigbee

* [ApiMote](https://github.com/riverloopsec/apimote) - IEEE 802.15.4/ZigBee sniffing hardware
* [Freakduino](https://freaklabs.org/documentation/freakduino/)

Bluetooth

* [Ubertooth](https://greatscottgadgets.com/ubertoothone/)
* [Bluefruit LE Snifferluef](https://www.adafruit.com/product/2269)

RFID & NFC

* [Proxmark3](https://proxmark.com/)
* [Chameleon](https://lab401.com/products/chameleon-mini-reve-rebooted) - NFC emulation and manipulation tool
* [HydraNFC](https://hydrabus.com/hydranfc-1-0-specifications/)
* ACR-122U - RFID/NFC reader/writer

## Magnetic Strip

* [MagSpoof](https://samy.pl/magspoof/) - wireless credit card / magnetic stripe spoofer

- - -

## EDA

EDA (Electronic Design Automation) and ECAD (Electronic Computer-Aided Design)

* [Eagle](https://www.autodesk.com/products/eagle/overview)
* [KiCad](https://www.kicad-pcb.org/)
* [Altium](https://www.altium.com/) and free [Altium CircuitMaker](https://circuitmaker.com/)
* [Pulsonix](https://www.pulsonix.com/)
* [DesignSpark PCB](https://www.rs-online.com/designspark/pcb-software)
* [gEDA](http://geda-project.org/)
* [DipTrace](https://diptrace.com/)
* [LibrePCB](https://librepcb.org/)
* [Horizon EDA](https://github.com/horizon-eda/horizon)

## Firmware Extract

* [Binwalk](https://github.com/ReFirmLabs/binwalk)

## Disassemblers & Decompilers

Multi-architecture

* [Radare2](http://www.radare.org/r/) // [Cutter](https://cutter.re)
* [objdump](http://linux.die.net/man/1/objdump)

## Software Debuggers

Hardware debugger

* [OpenOCD](http://openocd.org/) - Open On-Chip Debugger, give GDB support.
* [UrJTAG](http://www.urjtag.org) - Universal JTAG Library

Signal Analysis

* [Sigrok](https://sigrok.org/) // [PulseView](https://sigrok.org/wiki/PulseView)
* [Open Bench Logic Sniffer](http://dangerousprototypes.com/docs/Open_Bench_Logic_Sniffer)

Firmware debugger

* [GDB](https://www.gnu.org/software/gdb/)

## Traffic Analysis

Communication Protocol

* [I/O Ninja](https://ioninja.com/) - Professional, scriptable, multi-purpose terminal emulator, network sniffer, and IO monitor.
* [Bettercap](https://github.com/bettercap/bettercap) - Swiss-army knife for 802.11, BLE, and ethernet network reconnaissance and MITM attacks.
* CAN (Controller Area Network)
    - [CANToolz](https://github.com/CANToolz/CANToolz) - Black-box CAN network analysis framework.
* BLE (Bluetooth Low Energy)
    - [btproxy](https://github.com/conorpp/btproxy) - MITM analysis tool for Bluetooth.
    - [BtleJuice](https://github.com/DigitalSecurity/btlejuice) - BLE MITM framework.
    - [btlejack](https://github.com/virtualabs/btlejack) - BLE swiss-army knife pair with BBC Micro:Bit device.
    - Bluez - sdptool, l2ping
* ZigBee
    - [KillerBee](https://github.com/riverloopsec/killerbee) - IEEE 802.15.4/ZigBee Security Research Toolkit.

Radio Frequency

* [Universal Radio Hacker](https://github.com/jopohl/urh) - Investigate Wireless Protocols
* [Inspectrum](https://github.com/miek/inspectrum) - Offline radio signal analyser
* [GNU Radio](https://gnuradio.org/) - Software development toolkit for signal processing block to implement Software-Defined Radio and Signal-processing system.

- - - 

## RTOS

Free or Open Source RTOS (Real Time Operating System)

* [TinyOS](https://github.com/tinyos/tinyos-main) - A operating system designed for low-power wireless devices, such as those used in sensor networks, ubiquitous computing, personal area networks, smart buildings, and smart meters.
* [ContikiOS](https://github.com/contiki-os/contiki) - A free Operating System with focus to provide standardized low-power wireless communication for a wide range of hardware platforms.
* [FreeRTOS](http://www.freertos.org/) - A free use Real Time Operating system which is widely used and supports a large number of platforms.
* [RIOT](https://github.com/RIOT-OS/)  - A free OS for IoT devices providing foundational trust services. The trust services include device identity, sealing, attestation, and data integrity. The term “Robust” is used because the minimal trusted computing base is tiny, and because RIoT capabilities can remotely re-establish trust in devices that have been compromised by malware.
* [RTEMS](https://www.rtems.org/) - Real-Time Executive for Multiprocessor Systems or RTEMS is an open source Real Time Operating System (RTOS) that supports open standard application programming interfaces (API) such as POSIX. It is used in space flight, medical, networking and many more embedded devices using processor architectures including ARM, PowerPC, Intel, Blackfin, MIPS, Microblaze and more.

Commercial RTOS

* [SafeRTOS](https://www.highintegritysystems.com/safertos/) - Certified version of FreeRTOS by TUEV SUED against IEC 61508 (basic functional safety standard) up to SIL3 (the highest safety integrity level for a single software component), ISO 26262 ASIL D (automotive standard) and EN62304 (medical device standard).
* [INTEGRITY/INTEGRITY-178](http://www.ghs.com/products/rtos/integrity.html#performance) - Two commercial RTOS variants targeting to power embedded systems with total reliability, absolute security, and maximum real-time performance. The variant INTEGRYTY-178 has a lot of safety and security certifications.
* [PikeOS](https://www.sysgo.com/products/pikeos-hypervisor/) - A commercial micro-kernel based operating system with a small footprint and certified for DO-178 (avionics), IEC-61508 (industrial), ISO-26262 (automotive).
* [Rocket](http://www.windriver.com/products/operating-systems/rocket/) - A free embedded operating system specifically designed to quickly and easily build small, intelligent devices in Wind Rivers cloud-based development environment, Wind River Helix™ App Cloud.
* [Nucleus RTOS](https://www.mentor.com/embedded-software/nucleus/) - Commercial, highly scalable micro-kernel based real-time operating system designed for scalability and reliability.
* [uC/os](https://www.micrium.com/rtos/kernels/) - µC/OS-II and µC/OS-III are preemptive, highly portable, and scalable real-time kernels. You can test them out for free, but you must pay to put them into a product.
* [TI-RTOS](www.ti.com/tool/ti-rtos) - A real-time operating system for TI microcontrollers, It Includes TCP/IP and USB stacks, a FAT file system, and device drivers, Most of the TI-RTOS components are released under the BSD License.

Commit message:

Add Emulators on Hardware Reversing section

_hardware.md, after:

# Awesome Hardware Reverse Engineering

A curated list of awesome reverse engineering resources to make you better! 

Managed by Reversing.ID for the reversing community.

## Introduction 

`Hardware Reverse Engineering` focus on circuitry (boards, ICs) and intercomponent relation.

The scope and level of analysis can be vary greatly, some common targets:

- firmware.
- board layout.
- chip circuit design.

Some notable process:

- teardown: product disassembly, component/subsystem identification
- interface: protocol monitoring/analysis/emulation
- firmware: extract/modify code or data
- circuit: silicon modification

## Table of Contents

- Resources
    - [Books](#books)
    - [Courses](#courses)
    - [Channels](#channels)
    - [References](#references)
    - [Communities](#communities)
    - [Protocol List](#protocol-list)
- Hadware Tools
    - [Bus Interface](#bus-interface)
    - [Programmers & Flashers](#programmers--flashers)
    - [Hardware Debuggers](#hardware-debuggers)
    - [Protocol Analyzers](#protocol-analyzers)
    - [Logic Analyzers](#logic-analyzers)
    - [Osciloscopes](#osciloscopes)
    - [Dev & Breakout Boards](#dev--breakout-boards)
    - [Radio Frequency](#radio-frequency)
    - [Magnetic Strip](#magnetic-strip)
- Software Tools
    - [EDA](#eda)
    - [Firmware Extract](#firmware-extract)
    - [Disassemblers & Decompilers](#disassemblers--decompilers)
    - [Emulators](#emulators)
    - [Software Debuggers](#software-debuggers)
    - [Traffic Analysis](#traffic-analysis)
- Software Packages & Libraries
    - [RTOS](#rtos)

- - - 

## Books

Electronics, VHDL, and circuit design

* [Digital Electronics](https://amzn.com/8125939369)
* [Digital Fundamentals](https://amzn.com/0132737965)
* [Digital Design](https://amzn.com/B00HQ1CYUU)
* [The Art of Electronics](https://amzn.com/0521809266)

Hardware hacking

* [The Hardware Hacker: Advetures in Making and Breaking Hardware](https://amzn.com/159327758X)
* [Hardware Hacking: Have Fun while Voiding your Warranty](https://amzn.com/B001UN2WDY)
* [Hardware Hacking Projects for Geeks](https://amzn.com/0596003145) 
* [Game Console Hacking: Xbox, PlayStation, Nintendo, Game Boy, Atari and Sega](https://amzn.com/B001V7U7AE)

PCB (Printed Circuit Boards)

* [The Art of PCB Reverse Engineering: Unravelling the Beauty of the Original Design](https://amzn.com/1499323441)
* [PCB-RE: Real-World Examples](https://amzn.com/B087V4GJ94)

BIOS, UEFI, Firmware

* [BIOS Disassembly Ninjutsu Uncovered](https://amzn.com/1931769605)
* [Beyond BIOS: Developing with the Unified Extensible Firmware Interface](https://amzn.com/1501514784)

## Courses

Electronic

* [Lessons in Electric Circuits](https://www.ibiblio.org/kuphaldt/electricCircuits/) - Free high quality textbooks and worksheets with emphasys on theory, simulation, and the socratic method.
* [Ultimate Electronics: Practical Circuit Design and Analysis](https://ultimateelectronicsbook.com/) - Free online book with interactive schematics & simulations by CircuitLab (under development).
* [Khan Academy - Electrical Engineering](https://www.khanacademy.org/science/electrical-engineering) - Non-profit learning platform with a full course on electrical engineering and related topics.
* [NEETS (Navy Electricity and Electronics Training Series)](https://www.fcctests.com/neets/Neets.htm) - U.S. Navy Non-Resident Training Course Material.
* [Berkeley EECS](http://inst.eecs.berkeley.edu/classes-eecs.html) - Comprehensive EE & CS course website archives.
* [Dr. Jacob Baker](http://cmosedu.com) - Courses and tutorials, professor at The University of Nevada, Las Vegas.
* [Dr. Abraham](https://www.cerc.utexas.edu/~jaa/teaching.html), [Dr. McDermot](http://users.ece.utexas.edu/~mcdermot/), and [Dr. Valvano](http://users.ece.utexas.edu/~valvano/) - Courses materials, professors at UT Austin

Radio Frequency

* [Software Defined Radio with HackRF](https://greatscottgadgets.com/sdr/)

## Channels

YouTube Channel

* [Micah Scott](https://www.youtube.com/user/micahjd) - video logs of Reverse Engineering and repurposing consumer electronics hardware in creative ways.
* [The Signal Path](https://www.youtube.com/user/TheSignalPathBlog) - collections of teardown, repairs, and reviews of lab equipment and prototyping products.
* [GreatScott](https://www.youtube.com/user/greatscottlab)
* [EEVblog](https://www.youtube.com/user/EEVblog)

## References

Learning Assembly

* [Low-level Code Reference](https://github.com/ReversingID/LowLevelCode-Reference)

Development Boards

* [Arduino](https://www.arduino.cc/) | based on AVR or ARM 
* [NodeMCU](https://www.nodemcu.com) | based on ESP8266
* [Teensy](https://www.pjrc.com/teensy/) | based on ARM
* [MSP430 Launchpad](http://www.ti.com/tool/MSP-EXP430G2ET) | based on TI MSP430
* [STM32 Nucleo](https://www.st.com/en/evaluation-tools/stm32-nucleo-boards.html)

Single-Board Computer (family)

* [Raspberry Pi](https://www.raspberrypi.org/)
* [BeagleBoard](https://beagleboard.org/)
* [Onion Omega](https://onion.io/)
* [Pine64](https://www.pine64.org/)
* [ODROID](https://www.hardkernel.com)

Part Search Engine

* [Octopart](https://octopart.com)
* [Findchips](https://www.findchips.com/)
* [Parts.io](https://parts.io/)
* [AllDataSheet.io](https://www.alldatasheet.com/)

## Protocol List

Inter-circuitry protocol (Internal)

This protocol used for communication between circuit or modules, such as EEPROM, RAM, RTC, sensors, etc.

* SPI: *Serial Peripheral Interface*, synchronous protocol with master-slave design.
* I2C: *Inter-Integrated Circuit*, synchronous protocol with multi-master and multi-slave support.

System communication (External)

This protocol used for communication between modules or external system.

* Wired protocol
    - CAN: *Controller Area Network*, device communication popular in vehicle.
    - USB: *Universal Serial Bus*
    - UART & USART: *Universal Synchronous Asynchronous Receiver-Transmitter*
    - RS232
* Wireless protocol
    - Bluetooth
    - LoRaWAN
    - WiFi
    - ZigBee

Debugging protocol

* JTAG: *Joint-Test Action Group*
* SWD: *Serial-Wire Debug*, ARM specific protocol

## Communities

* [Kitspace](https://kitspace.org)
* [Hackaday.io](https://hackaday.io)
* [Hackster.io](https://www.hackster.io/)
* [Maker.pro](https://maker.pro)
* [Maker.io](https://www.digikey.com/en/maker)

- - - 

## Bus Interface

* [Shikra](https://int3.cc/products/the-shikra) - JTAG, SPI, I2C, UART, GPIO
* [Hydrabus](https://hydrabus.com/) - UART, I2C, USB, smartcard, 2-wire, wiegand, SPI, CAN, SDIO, DAC, 1-wire
* [Xpliot Nano](https://expliot.io/products/expliot-nano)
* [Bus Pirate](http://dangerousprototypes.com/docs/Features_overview) - 1-wire, I2C, SPI, JTAG, UART
* USB to TTL/UART
* [USBtin](https://www.fischl.de/usbtin/) - USB to CAN interface.

OBD adapter

* [ObdDiag](http://www.obddiag.net/) - open source ELM327 OBD adapter, connect to On-Board Diagnostic (OBD) port for connecting to car's self-diagnostic system.
* [M2](https://www.macchina.cc/m2-introduction) - 

## Programmers & Flashers

*read/write device which contain memory*

Universal

* [EE Tools](https://eetools.com/product-category/programmers/)

Microcontroller/Microprocessor Specific

* STM32 programmer - enter DFU (Device Firmware Upgrade) mode for programming and debugging
* AVR programmer

## Hardware Debuggers

SWD (Serial Wire Debugger), ARM specific

* [ST-Link](https://www.st.com/en/development-tools/st-link-v2.html)

JTAG (Joint-Test Action Group)

* [JTAGulator](https://github.com/grandideastudio/jtagulator) - scan and identify JTAG pin
* [JTAGEnum](https://github.com/cyphunk/JTAGenum) - using arduino to identify JTAG pin
* [RIFF Box](http://www.riffbox.org/)
* [Bus Blaster](http://dangerousprototypes.com/docs/Bus_Blaster) - JTAG debugger
* [Segger J-Link](https://www.segger.com/products/debug-probes/j-link/)
* Shikra
* ST-Link

## Protocol Analyzers

*real-time, non-intrusive monitoring/capture/decoding of wired communication*

Multi

* [TotalPhase Beagle](https://www.totalphase.com/products/beagle-i2cspi/) - USB/I2C/SPI

USB 

* Teledyn [LeCroy Voyager](https://teledynelecroy.com/protocolanalyzer/usb) series
* [OpenVizsla](http://openvizsla.org/)
* [Daisho](https://greatscottgadgets.com/daisho/)

CAN

* [CANtact](https://linklayer.github.io/cantact/) - CAN (Controller Area Network) to USB interface
* [TotalPhase Komodo](https://www.totalphase.com/products/komodo-canduo/) - CAN

## Logic Analyzers

*concurrently capturing, visualizing, and decoding large quantities of digital data*

* [Logic Pirate](http://dangerousprototypes.com/docs/Logic_Pirate) - 8 channels
* [Saleae](https://www.saleae.com/)
* USB Logic Analyzer
* [BeagleBone as Logic Analyzer](https://github.com/abhishek-kakkar/BeagleLogic)

## Osciloscopes

*visual display of electrical signals and how they change over time*

Standalone

* HP/Agilent
* Tektronix
* Rohde & Schwarz
* LeCroy
* Rigol

PC_based

* ProcScope
* USBee
* PicoScope

## Dev & Breakout Boards

* [GoodFET](http://goodfet.sourceforge.net/)
* [GreatFET One](https://greatscottgadgets.com/greatfet/one/)

## Radio Frequency

*Analyze, modify, and replay Radio Frequency signal.*

General-purpose

* [HackRF](https://greatscottgadgets.com/hackrf/) - half duplex, 1 MHz - 6 GHz
* [LimeSDR](https://www.crowdsupply.com/lime-micro/limesdr) - full duplex, 
* [RTL-SDR](https://www.rtl-sdr.com/) - RX, 500 kHz - 1766 MHz
* [YARD Stick](https://greatscottgadgets.com/yardstickone/) - half duplex, 300-348 MHz, 391-464 MHz, 782-928 MHz
* [nRF52840 Dongle](https://www.nordicsemi.com/Software-and-tools/Development-Kits/nRF52840-Dongle) - dongle which support Bluetooth 5, Bluetooth mesh, Thread, ZigBee, 802.15.4, ANT, and 2.4 GHz proprietary protocols.

Zigbee

* [ApiMote](https://github.com/riverloopsec/apimote) - IEEE 802.15.4/ZigBee sniffing hardware
* [Freakduino](https://freaklabs.org/documentation/freakduino/)

Bluetooth

* [Ubertooth](https://greatscottgadgets.com/ubertoothone/)
* [Bluefruit LE Snifferluef](https://www.adafruit.com/product/2269)

RFID & NFC

* [Proxmark3](https://proxmark.com/)
* [Chameleon](https://lab401.com/products/chameleon-mini-reve-rebooted) - NFC emulation and manipulation tool
* [HydraNFC](https://hydrabus.com/hydranfc-1-0-specifications/)
* ACR-122U - RFID/NFC reader/writer

## Magnetic Strip

* [MagSpoof](https://samy.pl/magspoof/) - wireless credit card / magnetic stripe spoofer

- - -

## EDA

EDA (Electronic Design Automation) and ECAD (Electronic Computer-Aided Design)

* [Eagle](https://www.autodesk.com/products/eagle/overview)
* [KiCad](https://www.kicad-pcb.org/)
* [Altium](https://www.altium.com/) and free [Altium CircuitMaker](https://circuitmaker.com/)
* [Pulsonix](https://www.pulsonix.com/)
* [DesignSpark PCB](https://www.rs-online.com/designspark/pcb-software)
* [gEDA](http://geda-project.org/)
* [DipTrace](https://diptrace.com/)
* [LibrePCB](https://librepcb.org/)
* [Horizon EDA](https://github.com/horizon-eda/horizon)

## Firmware Extract

* [Binwalk](https://github.com/ReFirmLabs/binwalk)

## Disassemblers & Decompilers

Multi-architecture

* [Radare2](http://www.radare.org/r/) // [Cutter](https://cutter.re)
* [objdump](http://linux.die.net/man/1/objdump)

## Emulators

Full firmware emulator

* [QEMU](https://www.qemu.org/) - Generic and open source machine emulator and virtualizer.
    - [ARM-X](https://github.com/therealsaumil/armx) - Firmware emulation framework based on top of QEMU
    - [Firmwadyne](https://github.com/firmadyne/firmadyne) - Platform for emulation and dynamic analysis of Linux-based firmware.
* [Kopycat](https://github.com/inforion/kopycat/) - hardware emulator.

## Software Debuggers

Hardware debugger

* [OpenOCD](http://openocd.org/) - Open On-Chip Debugger, give GDB support.
* [UrJTAG](http://www.urjtag.org) - Universal JTAG Library

Signal Analysis

* [Sigrok](https://sigrok.org/) // [PulseView](https://sigrok.org/wiki/PulseView)
* [Open Bench Logic Sniffer](http://dangerousprototypes.com/docs/Open_Bench_Logic_Sniffer)

Firmware debugger

* [GDB](https://www.gnu.org/software/gdb/)

## Traffic Analysis

Communication Protocol

* [I/O Ninja](https://ioninja.com/) - Professional, scriptable, multi-purpose terminal emulator, network sniffer, and IO monitor.
* [Bettercap](https://github.com/bettercap/bettercap) - Swiss-army knife for 802.11, BLE, and ethernet network reconnaissance and MITM attacks.
* CAN (Controller Area Network)
    - [CANToolz](https://github.com/CANToolz/CANToolz) - Black-box CAN network analysis framework.
* BLE (Bluetooth Low Energy)
    - [btproxy](https://github.com/conorpp/btproxy) - MITM analysis tool for Bluetooth.
    - [BtleJuice](https://github.com/DigitalSecurity/btlejuice) - BLE MITM framework.
    - [btlejack](https://github.com/virtualabs/btlejack) - BLE swiss-army knife pair with BBC Micro:Bit device.
    - Bluez - sdptool, l2ping
* ZigBee
    - [KillerBee](https://github.com/riverloopsec/killerbee) - IEEE 802.15.4/ZigBee Security Research Toolkit.

Radio Frequency

* [Universal Radio Hacker](https://github.com/jopohl/urh) - Investigate Wireless Protocols
* [Inspectrum](https://github.com/miek/inspectrum) - Offline radio signal analyser
* [GNU Radio](https://gnuradio.org/) - Software development toolkit for signal processing block to implement Software-Defined Radio and Signal-processing system.

- - - 

## RTOS

Free or Open Source RTOS (Real Time Operating System)

* [TinyOS](https://github.com/tinyos/tinyos-main) - A operating system designed for low-power wireless devices, such as those used in sensor networks, ubiquitous computing, personal area networks, smart buildings, and smart meters.
* [ContikiOS](https://github.com/contiki-os/contiki) - A free Operating System with focus to provide standardized low-power wireless communication for a wide range of hardware platforms.
* [FreeRTOS](http://www.freertos.org/) - A free use Real Time Operating system which is widely used and supports a large number of platforms.
* [RIOT](https://github.com/RIOT-OS/)  - A free OS for IoT devices providing foundational trust services. The trust services include device identity, sealing, attestation, and data integrity. The term “Robust” is used because the minimal trusted computing base is tiny, and because RIoT capabilities can remotely re-establish trust in devices that have been compromised by malware.
* [RTEMS](https://www.rtems.org/) - Real-Time Executive for Multiprocessor Systems or RTEMS is an open source Real Time Operating System (RTOS) that supports open standard application programming interfaces (API) such as POSIX. It is used in space flight, medical, networking and many more embedded devices using processor architectures including ARM, PowerPC, Intel, Blackfin, MIPS, Microblaze and more.

Commercial RTOS

* [SafeRTOS](https://www.highintegritysystems.com/safertos/) - Certified version of FreeRTOS by TUEV SUED against IEC 61508 (basic functional safety standard) up to SIL3 (the highest safety integrity level for a single software component), ISO 26262 ASIL D (automotive standard) and EN62304 (medical device standard).
* [INTEGRITY/INTEGRITY-178](http://www.ghs.com/products/rtos/integrity.html#performance) - Two commercial RTOS variants targeting to power embedded systems with total reliability, absolute security, and maximum real-time performance. The variant INTEGRYTY-178 has a lot of safety and security certifications.
* [PikeOS](https://www.sysgo.com/products/pikeos-hypervisor/) - A commercial micro-kernel based operating system with a small footprint and certified for DO-178 (avionics), IEC-61508 (industrial), ISO-26262 (automotive).
* [Rocket](http://www.windriver.com/products/operating-systems/rocket/) - A free embedded operating system specifically designed to quickly and easily build small, intelligent devices in Wind Rivers cloud-based development environment, Wind River Helix™ App Cloud.
* [Nucleus RTOS](https://www.mentor.com/embedded-software/nucleus/) - Commercial, highly scalable micro-kernel based real-time operating system designed for scalability and reliability.
* [uC/os](https://www.micrium.com/rtos/kernels/) - µC/OS-II and µC/OS-III are preemptive, highly portable, and scalable real-time kernels. You can test them out for free, but you must pay to put them into a product.
* [TI-RTOS](www.ti.com/tool/ti-rtos) - A real-time operating system for TI microcontrollers, It Includes TCP/IP and USB stacks, a FAT file system, and device drivers, Most of the TI-RTOS components are released under the BSD License.
